date: 1779-01-01
author: Joseph Plumb Martin
title: A Narrative of Some of the Adventures, Dangers and Sufferings of a Revolutionary Soldier
role: enlisted
service: Continental Army
source_type: memoir
chunk_id: 29d35ae67d2c8dc26d7397960c4df2f7e35999b7
chunk_index: 79/115
campaign_year: 1779

---

of the danger of the baggage. We started early next morning and arrived at Dobb's ferry about noon. Soon after this journey, one night, the British brig came down the river with her precious cargo—Arnold—on board. There were several shots discharged at her as she passed the block-house, but she went by without paying us much attention. The next day it was reported that Gen. Arnold had deserted; I should as soon have thought West point had deserted as he; but I was soon convinced that it was true. Had I possessed the power of foreknowledge, I might twice have put Arnold asleep without any one knowing it and saved the life of, perhaps, a better man, and my country much trouble and disgrace. The first time was at the Peekskill in a barn, just before Andre came to his quarters and while their clandestine negotiation was in progress. I was upon a guard. "There are men," says Shakespear, "who, in their sleep mutter all their conceits." Such an one was Arnold, and therefore afraid to sleep near any one lest he should "babble his conceits" in his sleep. He ordered me and my guard out of the barn, that he might have his bed upon the floor; I was so put out of my bias at the time, that had I known what plans he had in his head, I should have needed but little persuasion to have had a reckoning with him. The other time was but three or four days before his desertion; I met him upon the road a little distance from Dobb's ferry, he was then taking his observations and examing the roads, I thought that he was upon some deviltry; we met at a notch of the roads and I observed he stopped, and sitting upon his horse, seemed minutely to examine each road. I could not help taking notice of him, and thought it strange to see him quite alone in such a lone place. He looked guilty, and well he might, for Satan was in as full possession of him at that instant as ever he was of Judas; it only wanted a musket ball to have driven him out. I had been acquainted with Arnold from my childhood and never had too good an opinion of him. The British had a block-house below, said to be garrisoned by a gang of fugitive Negroes, commanded by a black by the name of Cuff—Col. Cuff.—One night a black man, a runaway, came to one of our sentinels at our block-house; when he came up he addressed the sentinel with, "is this Col. Cuffee's brock-house?" The sentinel called the commander of the guard, who quickly undeceived poor Ceasar and sent him back to his master, where, no doubt, he got a striped jacket as part of his uniform suit, to remember Col. Cuff by. Our people had a number of spy boats lying a little distance above the ferry. One night one of these boats went down the river and anchored not far from the western shore, which was there very high, placed a sentinel in the boat and lay down to rest. A British boat, getting intelligence of them, rowed up with muffled oars, keeping close under the highland, in the shadow of the mountains, (the moon being in that quarter,) till they had got above them, and then came directly down upon them. The sentinel immediately roused up the men in the boat; one of them having his musket charged with buckshot, (Yankee pease, as the British used to call them,) challenged them with, "who comes there?" they answered, "we will quickly let you know." The man in our boat, answered, "here's give you Shelar McGira then," and gave them the contents of his musket, which caused a bitter lamentation in the British boat. Our people had now cut their cable and got to their oars, they rowed a small distance, and lay to for the enemy's boat to come up, when they all fired into her and again sprang to their oars. Our boat could row much faster than the other, which still followed her. They kept up a constant fire upon each other till they got nearly up to the ferry, where there were a few troops encamped, who, running down upon the bank of the river, prepared to give the English boat a seasoning, but the enemy, seeing them, gave over the chase and went back down the river. What execution our people did among them was not known, but one of our men received a musket ball directly in the middle of his forehead, which passed out behind his head; this was done about eleven o'clock at night, and I saw him at nine next morning, alive, and breathing just like a man in a sound sleep; he died in about an hour after.
