date: 1779-01-01
author: Joseph Plumb Martin
title: A Narrative of Some of the Adventures, Dangers and Sufferings of a Revolutionary Soldier
role: enlisted
service: Continental Army
source_type: memoir
chunk_id: c4d7d4edd7fd0fe8703652d57ec727ab95486024
chunk_index: 78/115
campaign_year: 1779

---

made to save her; she was continental property and consequently thought of but little consequence. I landed and soon found my officer, who had arrived some time before me; he had got our baggage into a wagon, which had gone on, and he was waiting for me. We should have gone down to Dobb's ferry with the boat had it not been for the British brig Vulture, which was lying just below King's ferry, waiting upon Arnold and Andre. There was a large number of wagons, teamsters and soldiers at the ferry; every thing destined to the army, coming down the river, was obliged to be landed here on account of the abovementioned brig. When I had found the Lieutenant he took his horse, leaving the other with me, and sent me back to the river's side on an errand; I did as ordered and then went on after him and our baggage. I had gone but a small distance before my apples began to operate; I had felt their effects some time before. I now began to think the game was up with me; my head ached as though it was splitting into ten thousand pieces and my sight entirely failed. I got, or rather tumbled, off my horse and lay on the ground, giving myself up for lost. The Lieutenant, finding I did not make my appearance, came back to seek me. He found me in a sad condition. I asked him to give me some water; he got some that was quite warm, and it was well for me that it was so, for I had no sooner swallowed it than it caused me to discharge the contents of my stomach, which quickly gave me ease. I then got upon his horse, which had a soft deer's skin for a saddle-cloth, and he walked by my side and led my horse. I again asked him for water; he went into a house a little distance from the road, in which was no person except an old man; the Lieutenant asked him for a vessel to dip some water from a spring near by, which was six or eight feet deep; but the old man refused, saying that he would not let a soldier have a cup to drink from if it were to save his life. The officer then took a glass pint mug and came out to me, the old man following him raving like a madman; the Lieutenant gave me some water and, after I had drank, he flung the mug into the spring with a motion that seemed to indicate that he was not well pleased; upon which the old man redoubled his abuse, when the Lieutenant, drawing his sword, swore that if he did not immediately shut his mouth, he would bleed him. The old man seeing the sword glitter, thought it best to shut up whilst his skin was whole, and walked off to the house, and we went on. This officer was a very mild man, but the old man had "raised his ideas" by abusing the soldiers, which he would not bear from any one. We went on and overtook the wagons; but I felt very meagre all day. I never before thought myself so near death, and it was all occasioned by eating a few apples; but less things than these may deprive a man of life.—This was one "suffering" of a Revolutionary Soldier. There were more than fifty wagons in company with us, bound to the army. We halted at night at a cluster of houses; the Lieutenant took up his abode for the night in a farmer's house;—I staid out with the wagons. In the evening I strolled into a cornfield, upon some occa-casion or other, where I discovered a large patch of watermelons; I took one and went to the wagon and ate it, although the Lieutenant had given me a strict charge not to meddle with any kind of fruit until I had fully digested the apples. He insisted upon my lodging in the house from fear of taking cold, but I chose to keep out with the baggage, which I did till supper time, he then sent out to me to come in and get supper, I could not well refuse this invitation, and went in; the lady of the house provided me a rarity, homminy and milk; the Lieutenant again urged me to stay in the house, but I pretended that our clothing might be in danger unless I attended to it; he said no more to me but left me to regulate my own conduct. It was not the clothing I had so much at heart, though that bore some weight on my mind, but the thought of the luscious watermelons was what so strongly attracted my mind in that direction. Accordingly, when all was still, I went and took as many as I thought necessary, stowed them into the wagon and then lay down under it, and slept very contentedly till morning, without once thinking
