date: 1782-01-01
author: Joseph Plumb Martin
title: A Narrative of Some of the Adventures, Dangers and Sufferings of a Revolutionary Soldier
role: enlisted
service: Continental Army
source_type: memoir
chunk_id: 218e93305db67647ccb2af773931febd05c1de11
chunk_index: 103/115
campaign_year: 1782

---

three of our young hotheads told me that they and some others of the men, whom they mentioned, were about to have some fun with "the old man," as they generally called the Captain. I inquired what their plans were, and they informed me that they had put some powder into a canteen and were going to give him a bit of a hoist. I asked them to let me see their apparatus, before they put their project in execution; accordingly, they soon after showed me a wooden canteen with more, as I judged, than three pounds of gunpowder in it, with a stopper of touchwood for a fuze, affixed to it, all, they said, in prime order. I told them they were crazy, that the powder they had in the canteen would "hoist" him out of time; but they insisted upon proceeding,—it would only frighten him, they said, and that was all they wished to do,—it would make him a little more complaisant. I then told them that if they persisted in their determination and would not promise me on the spot to give up their scheme, I would that instant go to the Captain and lay the whole affair before him. At length, after endeavouring, without effect, to obtain my consent to try a little under his berth, they concluded to give up the affair altogether; and thus, I verily believe, I saved the old man's life; although I do not think that they meant any thing more than to frighten him. But the men hated him, and did not much care what happened to him. There was the foundation of some barracks, which the British had burnt in their excursion up the North river, in the year 1777, it was composed of stone and lime, perfectly level, and, perhaps, a hundred feet long; the bushes had grown up around it, excepting the side next the river; the place formed a very pretty spot for a contemplative evening's walk. The Captain used frequently, in fine weather, to be seen pacing backward and forward upon this wall, between sunset and dark. The men observed him and itched to discommode him, but, since they had made me privy to their roguery, they dare not play any of their tricks upon him without consulting me, for fear of being discovered. They therefore applied to me for my consent to "cut some caper" with him, as they called it. Their plan now was, to set an old musket, (which they had somewhere obtained,) in the manner that hunters set them to kill wild animals, (charged only with powder.) I consented to let them try this experiment; but, after all, it never took effect; either the Captain discovered it, or it failed by accident, or from some other cause, for I never heard any thing more about it. I did not wish him to receive any personal injury from their roguery; but I cared very little how much they frightened him. I did not consider myself as being under very heavy obligations to him for his civilities to me, and many of the men considered themselves under still less. One young man, who was the ringleader of this "gunpowder plot," had a particular grudge against the old man, which urged him on to devise mishchief against him. I imagine that he considered himself justified by his conscience in doing so, in consequence of several affronts, as he termed them, which he had received from him. I will mention one or two to which I was knowing, that the reader may be able to form some judgment as to the cause he had to be revenged on the poor old Captain.—He once purloined a flour barrel, I think, from the baker, for the purpose of making a washing tub. The pretended owner complained to the Captain, who, apparently, took no notice of it at the time; however, as it appeared, not long afterwards, he did not forget it, for this man, one morning, soon after, went off without leave with some others, (who had permission,) across the mountain to New-Windsor, eight or ten miles distant, and did not return till after evening roll-call, at which time he was reported as absent without leave. The Sergeant-Major (who belonged to our company) chanced that evening to call the roll. He was a sheer sycophant and would, at any time, have a man punished, if he could by so doing ingratiate himself with the officers. He therefore, as might be expected, informed the Captain of the whole affair. The Captain ordered the Sergeant-Major to send the delinquent to him as soon as he returned, which he accordingly did. The Captain used but very little reasoning with him, before he began to use harder arguments than words could convey, urged by the weight of his rattan; after he had satiated his vengeance
