date: 1782-01-01
author: Joseph Plumb Martin
title: A Narrative of Some of the Adventures, Dangers and Sufferings of a Revolutionary Soldier
role: enlisted
service: Continental Army
source_type: memoir
chunk_id: c39709b865f927dd3ae389896654a07df16c6f6a
chunk_index: 102/115
campaign_year: 1782

---

the officers in the house and the men in the barns. In the evening of the last day we were here, just at dark, one of our officers came and told me that two of the men had deserted, and had compelled another man to go with them. As they were all what we called "Old Countrymen," it was conjectured that they had gone to the enemy, and I was accordingly ordered to take nine men, who were then in readiness, and endeavour to overtake them before they could reach New-York. I immediately set off, having received my orders, which were, to go to what was called the "English neighbourhood," and if I could not find them, or hear of them, to return. The English neighbourhood was from forty-five to fifty miles distant from the place we were then at. We travelled so hard, that at daylight I had but three men of the nine left with me, the other six having given out by the way. We were now near our journey's end, when the men with me beginning to grow slack, and hearing no tiding of the deserters, we concluded to return. When we had got eight or ten miles on our retrograde movement, we met one of our Lieutenants, on his way to visit his friends who lived in that quarter. He had with him three men for an escort, and had picked up those of my party who had given out by the way. We met him just as he arrived at his father's house, a lucky circumstance for us, as we stopped and got something to eat. He then sent me off alone, to a place on the river, where some spy boats (as they were called) were stationed, with directions to request the officers commanding them to take up the three deserters, should they see them. I executed this commission and returned to the Lieutenant, who then told me to take all the men and return to our corps. The country all about here was infested by Tories, especially a certain district through which I had to pass on my return. The Lieutenant charged me not to stop at this place through the night, but to rest short of it, or proceed beyond it. I again set out with my twelve men, little heeding the Tories. It being some time to night when we arrived at the abovementioned Tory-land, we pushed on and did not stop till we got quite back to Smith's house. We, particularly myself and the three men who held out all night, were tired enough, having travelled about ninety miles in twenty-four hours, and I had travelled five or six miles further than any of them, in going to, and returning from the spy boats. We were hungry and tired but had nothing to eat. I had six or seven dollars in specie, which one of our corps (an Irishman) had desired me to keep awhile for him, to avoid the importunity of his friends; but he was not with us; I however ventured to make use of one dollar that evening and the next morning, in purchasing some bread and cheese, and a little something to wet our whistles with. I afterwards paid the man, and he informed me that that dollar did him more good than all the others. I had, the day before this expedition, put on a pair of new shoes, which, not having got fitted to my feet, caused blisters upon them as large as cents. The deserters were, all the time we were in pursuit of them, within three miles of the place where they left us. The man whom they forced off with them, made his escape from them soon after and returned; he told me that they saw us on our return; that they were then in Haverstraw mountan, not more than a quarter of a mile from us. Thus I had another useless and fatigueing expedition for nothing. The next morning we set out after our troops, who had gone on for West point, about eighteen or twenty miles; we found them on the eastern side of the river. Here we got some provisions and a day or two after crossed over to West point, where we encamped and worked some time in repairing the fortifications. Towards the latter part of the Summer, we went on to Connecticut Island, opposite to West point, and were employed awhile in blasting rocks, for the repair of the works on that side of the river. It was not so dreary at this time as it was when we were there wheeling dirt upon the magazine, in 1780. Our duty was not over hard, but the Engineers kept us busy. In the month of September, while we lay here and our tents were pitched about promiscuously, by reason of the ruggedness of the ground, our Captain had pitched his marquee in an old gravel pit, at some distance from the tents of the men. One day, two or
