date: 1777-01-01
author: Joseph Plumb Martin
title: A Narrative of Some of the Adventures, Dangers and Sufferings of a Revolutionary Soldier
role: enlisted
service: Continental Army
source_type: memoir
chunk_id: df04e37a748abc6275d73e45c7c21c6dda3ab7e1
chunk_index: 24/115
campaign_year: 1777

---

endeavoured to persuade me to stick to it, but I could then say—No.—He told me that he would speak to his Captain about the matter, and as I had taken no bounty money, he thought that he would dismiss me. Accordingly, he told the Captain of my unwillingness to be held, and he let me run at large once more; I then determined to wait my own time before I engaged again. The inhabitants of the town were about this time put into what were called squads, according to their rateable property. Of some of the most opulent, one formed a squad,— of others, two or three, and of the lower sort of the people, several formed a squad. Each of these squads were to furnish a man for the army, either by hiring or by sending one of their own number. I had an elbow relation, a sort of (as the Irishman said) cousin-in-law, who had been in the army the two preceding campaigns, and now had a Lieutenant's commission in the standing army. He was continually urging my grandparents to give their consent for me to go with him. He told the old gentleman a power of fine stories, and made him promises, respecting his behaviour to me, which he never intended to perform, until he obtained my grandsire's consent, and at length, after much persuasion, my consent likewise. One of the above-mentioned squads, wanting to procure a man, the Lieutenant told them that he thought they might persuade me to go for them, and they accord-lyattacked me, front, rear and flank. I thought, as I must go, I might as well endeavour to get as much for my skin as I could;—accordingly, I told them that I would go for them, and fixed upon a day when I would meet them and clinch the bargain. The day, which was a muster-day of the militia of the town, arrived;—I went to the parade, where all was liveliness, as it generally is upon such occasions; but poor I felt miserably; my execution-day was come. I kept wandering about till the afternoon, among the crowd, when I saw the Lieutenant, who went with me into a house where the men of the squad were, and there I put my name to enlisting indentures for the last time. And now I was hampered again. The men gave me what they agreed to, I forget the sum, perhaps enough to keep the blood circulating during the short space of time which I tarried at home after I had enlisted. They were now freed from any further trouble, at least for the present, and I had become the scape-goat for them. Well, I was again a soldier!—I staid at home a few days, which I endeavoured to make as agreeable as possible, well knowing that the army would bring trouble enough to counterbalance all the happiness I could procure for myself in the short time I had to tarry at home. Just at this time the British landed in Connecticut, and marched twenty miles into the country, where they burnt the town of Danbury with all the public stores it contained, which were considerable, among which was all the clothing of our regiment. The militia were generally turned out and sent to settle the account with them; the newly enlisted soldiers went with the militia; the enemy had, however, executed his commission, and made considerable progress on his return before we came up. We had some pretty severe scratches with them; killed some, wounded some, and took some prisoners; the remainder reached their shipping, embarked, and cleared out for New-York, where they arrived soon after, (I suppose,) much gratified with the mischief they had done. We likewise returned home, with the loss of three men belonging to the town, one of whom was an enlisted soldier. Major-General David Wooster, of New-Haven, an old and experienced officer, likewise fell in this expedition; Gen. Arnold had a very close rub, but escaped. Soon after the above transaction, we had orders to join our regiment, (or rather, to begin to assemble the regiment,) at Newtown, the residence of our Colonel. We accordingly marched and arrived there. Here we drew our arms and equipments. Uncle Sam was always careful to supply us with these articles, even if he could not give us any thing to eat, drink or wear. We staid but a short time here, but went on to Danbury, where I had
