date: 1779-01-01
author: Joseph Plumb Martin
title: A Narrative of Some of the Adventures, Dangers and Sufferings of a Revolutionary Soldier
role: enlisted
service: Continental Army
source_type: memoir
chunk_id: 6d1e614c38f0df19f9a04c3b08f05251c2ff4928
chunk_index: 70/115
campaign_year: 1779

---

where he sunk to his middle in the mud, and there remained unperceived, till they went off, and thus preserved his life. Such manœuvres the British continued to exhibit the whole time we were stationed here, but could never do any other damage to us than killing poor Twist, (the name of the young man.) Unfortunate young man! I could not restrain my tears, when I saw him next day, with his breast like a sieve, caused by the wounds. He lost his own life by endeavouring to save the lives of others; massacred by his own countrymen, who ought to have been fighting in the common cause of the country, instead of murdering him. I have been more particular in relating this circumstance, that the reader may be informed what people there were in the times of the revolution. Mr. Holstead told me that almost the whole of his neighbourhood had joined the enemy and that his next door neighbour was in this very party. There was a large number in this place and its vicinity by the name of Hetfield who were notorious rascals. A certain Captain of Militia, resident in these parts, who, upon some occasion, had business to transact within the reach of these miscreants, they caught and hanged him up without ceremony, judge or jury. General Washington demanded the perpetrators of this infernal deed, of the British authorities in New-York, but they declined complying with his demand, he, therefore, selected a British Captain, a prisoner,—a son, and I believe an only son, of an opulent English lady, and put him in close confinement, threatening to execute him unless the murderers were given up to justice. But his distressed mother by her strong maternal intercession with the King and court of France prevailed on them; and their remonstrances to Gen. Washington, joined with his own benevolent feelings, so far wrought upon him that he set the Captain at liberty and thus these murderous villains escaped the punishment due to their infernal deeds. We remained on this tedious duty, getting nothing to eat but our old fare, Indian meal, and not over much of that, till the middle of May, when we were relieved, but we remained at our quarters eight or ten days after that. Our duty was not quite so hard now as it had been, but that faithful companion, hunger, stuck as close to us as ever; he was a faithful associate, I will not say friend, for, indeed, poverty is no friend, nor has he many admirers, though he has an extensive acquaintance;—the soldiers were well acquainted with him during the whole period of the revolutionary war. We were here at the time the "dark day" happened, (19th of May;) it has been said that the darkness was not so great in New-Jersey as in New-England. How great it was there I do not know, but I know that it was very dark where I then was in New-Jersey; so much so that the fowls went to their roosts, the cocks crew and the whip-poor-wills sung their usual serenade; the people had to light candles in their houses to enable them to see to carry on their usual business; the night was as uncommonly dark as the day was. We left Westfield about the twenty-fifth of May, and went to Baskinridge to our old winter cantonments; we did not reoccupy the huts which we built, but some others that the troops had left, upon what account I have forgotten. Here, the monster Hunger, still attended us; he was not to be shaken off by any efforts we could use, for here was the old story of starving, as rife as ever. We had entertained some hopes that when we had left the lines and joined the main army, we should fare a little better, but we found that there was no betterment in the case. For several days after we rejoined the army, we got a little musty bread, and a little beef, about every other day, but this lasted only a short time and then we got nothing at all. The men were now exasperated beyond endurance; they could not stand it any longer; they saw no other alternative but to starve to death, or break up the army, give all up and go home. This was a hard matter for the soldiers to think upon; they were truly patriotic; they loved their country, and they had already suffered every thing short of death in its cause; and now, after such extreme hardships to give up all, was too much; but to starve to death was too much also. What was to be done?—Here was the army starved and naked, and there their country sitting still and expecting the army to do notable things while fainting from sheer starvation. All things
