date: 1782-01-01
author: Joseph Plumb Martin
title: A Narrative of Some of the Adventures, Dangers and Sufferings of a Revolutionary Soldier
role: enlisted
service: Continental Army
source_type: memoir
chunk_id: db3e8fb0aba52a53dd8febcfcb6df1e381a59d26
chunk_index: 105/115
campaign_year: 1782

---

Two or three miles above West point is a remarkable mountain, jutting quite into the river, called Butter hill, from the colour of the rocks that compose it, which are of a yellowish hue. The end of the mountain next the river is almost perpendicular, and in many places quite so; it runs off gradually to the westward where it is on all sides easy of ascent. Not finding the nuts so plenty as I wished or expected, and being drawn on by the two nags I have mentioned above, I took it into my head to leave my associates and climb this mountain, where I expected to have a prospect of the country around me that would compensate me for all my trouble in climbing the hill, and then by going along on the top I could descend it with ease. My mates tried to dissuade me from the undertaking, but no, I was determined to go, and go I did—a part of the way—I clambered up, sometimes upon my hands and knees, and sometimes pulling myself up by the small bushes that grew in the cliffs of the rocks; passing many places in imminent danger of falling; passing round crags of rocks on the very edges of frightful precipices, not daring to look back; when, after I had ascended perhaps five or six hundred feet, and thought I had nearly obtained my object, I arrived at a spot where I was completely gravelled, and could go no farther one way or the other; I then had to stop of course, and ventured to look back, being forced to do so; I saw the tall trees below me in the valley, reduced in size to whortleberry bushes. I sat down on a crag of the rock, which was hardly broad enough for me to rest upon, and then began to reflect on my folly; to go farther was impossible, to get down again alive seemed equally so, especially when I recollected the many dangerous places I had passed in climbing up; and to call for help was vain, for no one could do aught for me, if they were ever so willing. I thought of my more than madness in attempting such a hazardous, foolish exploit, without any cause for it but my idle curiosity. I recollected the advice of my comrades; and when all these considerations rushing on my mind at once, it almost made me desperate. I had a mind to sit still where I was and starve to death, or, throw myself down the rocks, and put an end to my life and anxiety together. Had the mountain been all solid gold and I the sole possessor of it, I would at that instant, have given every ounce of it to have been in the situation I was but two hours before, but, as the poet says, "He had slighted good counsel, had reckon'd it cheap; And now the sad fruit of his folly must reap." However, after taking breath a little, (for truly I was almost breathless from fatigue, setting aside the danger,) I came to the resolution to make a trial to free myself from the preposterous hobble I had so foolishly poked my unthinking skull into for nothing. I could but die if I fell, and I should die if I staid there. Accordingly, I sat out on my downward passage. Every one knows, that has had the trial, that it is much easier and safer in ascending than descending such places. I was sensible of this, and therefore took good care, that, as much as I wished to be at the bottom of the hill, I did not go down faster than was necessary. By much care, more labour, and abundance of danger, for about an hour, undergoing fear and horrour in the extreme, I arrived where I set out from about two hours and a half before. I could hardly stand upon my feet when I reached the foot of the mountain. I looked up the hill with horrour and pleasure; horrour at the sight and thought of the risk I had run for my life, and pleasure to find myself safe once more on level land. I made myself a promise, that nothing but absolute necessity should ever carry me off on such another foolish expedition, so long as I was allowed sense and reason enough to keep myself from running headlong into the fire. Another scrape of a similar complexion, I got into about this time, when I ran as great or greater risk of losing my life, than I did in the one just related. I have before, in this narrative, informed the reader of my propensity to gunning whenever I could get an opportunity to indulge myself in it. The mountains on the Hudson, called the Highlands, had an abundance of partridges, heath-hens and grey squirrels upon them, especially on the western side of the river. I had one day got over the river and among those hills for an
