date: 1779-01-01
author: Joseph Plumb Martin
title: A Narrative of Some of the Adventures, Dangers and Sufferings of a Revolutionary Soldier
role: enlisted
service: Continental Army
source_type: memoir
chunk_id: 3d8a9221ff35d1203454074b8fff4489372a495f
chunk_index: 80/115
campaign_year: 1779

---

About this time Major Andre was brought from the Highlands to head-quarters, where he was examined, condemned and executed. I saw him before his execution, but was on duty on that day and could not attend; otherwise I should. He was an interesting character. There has been a great deal said about him, but he was but a man, and no better, nor had he better qualifications than the brave Captain Hale, whom the British commander caused to be executed as a spy, upon Long-Island, in 1776, without the shadow of a trial; denying him the use of a Bible or the assistance a clergyman in his last moments, and destroying the letters he had written to his widowed mother and other relations. Andre had every indulgence allowed him that could be granted with propriety;— see the contrast—let all who pity Andre so much, look at it and be silent. We were frequently alarmed while lying at Dobb's ferry; being so few and at a distance from the main army, we had constantly to be on the look out, but never happened to come in contact with the enemy, although they very frequently made us believe we should. While lying here I was almost persuaded, once, that I should have to take a trip to NewYork, but was quite agreeably disappointed. One day my Captain sent me across the country to the western part of Connecticut, to bring him some mathematical instruments he had left there. He directed me which way to take, as it was dangerous travelling there on account of the small parties of British, or rather Refugees and Cowboys in their service. I knew the way very well, but I knew too, there was a way lower down, that was shorter. I determined after I had crossed the river, to take that road and hazard the consequences. I had got about half way on my journey, when just at night, I passed a house, which before the war had been a tavern. I passed by the house, thoughtlessly, and saw nobody, but as I passed the horse shed, I observed several horses standing under it, caparisoned like dragoon horses. I hurried on as fast as I could to get out of sight, but I had not got many rods by the house, when I saw a man come out with a fusee in his hand, and otherwise equipped like a soldier, who calling after me, bid me stop. I was so near him and entirely unarmed, that I dare not refuse his demand. He stepped along slowly a few paces towards me, inquiring where I was going and where I came from. I now inwardly cursed my indiscretion in not obeying my Captain's directions respecting the road I ought to have taken. I asked him the same questions he had asked me; he said that was nothing to the purpose, he had first interrogated me and I must answer him. He kept all the time advancing slowly towards me; I wished we were further apart. By this time two or three more of his party had come out of the house and were standing looking at us. I then told him to tell me who he was and where from, and keep me no longer in suspense. As he advanced I receded as much as I dared to, till he peremptorily told me not to go any further till I had satisfied him who I was and where I was going. By this time I began to gather courage; I thought that if he belonged to the enemy he would not stand so long without my knowing who he was by stronger arguments than words. I at last told him frankly who I was and where bound; well, said he, I thought you were upon some particular business, or you would not have been seen on this dangerous road. He then asked me to go back to the house and take some refreshment; but I declined his invitation, being glad to find myself safe and in my own hands. I went on and accomplished my business, but took care to return on a safer road. We lay at Dobb's ferry till the latter part of the month of October, when we marched to West point for winter-quarters. I left this place with regret, more so than any other during my continuance in the army. It was upon an account which I need not mention. Many young men have, doubtless, felt the same upon similar occasions. If they have, they know my feelings at the time I speak of. But that time has long since gone by and my affections with it, both "gone with the years beyond the flood," never more to return. We marched for West point.—At the Peekskill we procured batteaux to convey ourselves and baggage up the river to the point, where we arrived in safety and went into the old barracks, until new ones could be built for us, which we immediately commenced. We
