date: 1777-01-01
author: Joseph Plumb Martin
title: A Narrative of Some of the Adventures, Dangers and Sufferings of a Revolutionary Soldier
role: enlisted
service: Continental Army
source_type: memoir
chunk_id: 1801d62fdb02daeae75e822303f45f7ecdef61f9
chunk_index: 30/115
campaign_year: 1777

---

We went on to Barren hill again, where we lay all the day, waiting, as it appeared, for reinforcements, which arrived and joined us towards night. We drew a day's ration of beef and flour,—what was called a pound of each; the flour, perhaps, was not far from its nominal weight, but the beef was, as it always was in such cases, and indeed in all others in the army, not more than three fourths of a pound, and that, at the best, half bone. And how was it cooked?—Why, as it usually was when we had no cooking utensils with us,—that is, the flour was laid upon a flat rock and mixed up with cold water, then daubed upon a flat stone and scorched on one side, while the beef was broiling on a stick in the fire. This was the common way of cookery when on marches, and we could get any thing to cook, and this was the mode at the time mentioned. After I had satisfied my hunger, I lay down upon the ground and slept till within about half an hour of sunset. When I awoke I was turned quite about; I thought it was morning instead of evening; however, I was soon convinced of my error, and the sun had the good manners to wheel about and put himself in his proper position again. Just at dark, the reinforcements having arrived and all things being put in order, we marched again, and about nine or ten o'clock we tried the waters of the Schuylkill once more, at the same place where we crossed the preceding night. It was not so cold as it was then and the crossing was not so tedious, but it was bad enough at this time. We marched slowly the remainder of the night. At the dawn of day we found ourselves in the neighbourhood of the enemy; I mean, in the neighbourhood of where they had been, for when we were about to spring the net, we discovered that the birds had flown, and there was not one on the bed. There was a British guard at a little distance from the bridge, upon the opposite side of the river; they turned out to do us honour and sent off an express to the city, to inform their friends that the Yankees had come to pay them a visit, but they were so unmannerly as to take no notice of us;—after we had taken so much pains and been at so much trouble to come to see them, they might have shown a little more politeness, considering that it would not have cost them half the trouble to meet us as we had been at to meet them. But perhaps they thought, that as we had undergone so much fatigue and vexation on our journey, we might feel cross and peevish, and perchance some unlucky accidents might have happened. The British were politic, and it is good to be cautious and discreet. We had nothing to do now but to return as we came; accordingly, we marched off slowly, hoping that the enemy would think better of it and follow us, for we were loath to return without seeing them;—however, they kept to themselves and we went on. I was hungry, tired and sleepy;—about noon we halted an hour or two, and I went a little way into the fields, where I found a black walnut tree with a plenty of nuts under it; these nuts are very nutricious, and I cracked and ate of them till I was satisfied. We marched again. In the course of the afternoon, I somewhere procured about half a dozen turnips, which I carried all the way to camp in my hand; so much did we value any thing that we could get to eat. About sun-setting we again waded the Schuylkill, at a ford a little higher up the river. The river was not so wide here as at the former place, but the water was deeper; it was to the breast. When we had crossed, and it had become dark, we met the Quartermasters, who had come out to meet us with wagons and hogsheads of whiskey! (thinking, perhaps, that we might take cold by being so much exposed in the cold water;) they had better have brought us something more substantial, but we thought that better than nothing. The casks were unheaded, and the Quartermaster-sergeants stood in the wagons and dealt out the liquor to the platoons; each platoon halting as it came up, till served. The intention of the Quartermaster-sergeants was, to give to each man a gill of liquor, but as measuring it out by gills was tedious, it was dealt out to us in pint measures, with directions to divide a pint between four men; but as it was dark and the actions of the men could not be well seen by those who served out the liquor, each one drank as much as he pleased; some, perhaps, half a gill, some a gill, and as many as chose it drained the pint. We again moved on for the camp, distant about five miles.
