date: 1782-01-01
author: Joseph Plumb Martin
title: A Narrative of Some of the Adventures, Dangers and Sufferings of a Revolutionary Soldier
role: enlisted
service: Continental Army
source_type: memoir
chunk_id: d932aa208d1e5243feb9b09a773225a127a52b31
chunk_index: 106/115
campaign_year: 1782

---

afternoon's hunting. I had not been long there, when, going along by the side of a steep mountain, I saw and shot a squirrel, but only badly wounding it; it fell from the tree just before me, upon a flat part of the rock, which projected from the side of the mountain, and was about twenty feet wide, and perhaps, two or three rods long, as steep as the ordinary roof of a house; the lower edge, or what might be denominated the eves, hung over a frightful precipice, eighty or a hundred feet perpendicular. My game, as I said before, fell upon this rock and was scrambling off across it. I laid down my gun and gave it chase. When I had got about half way across this rock and nearly up with the squirrel, being so intent upon overtaking it that I did not observe the danger I was in, I slipped and fell upon my side and slid directly down the rock, towards the precipice, until my feet were within a foot or two of the brink. There happened, providentially, to be a small savine, or red cedar bush, about the size of a man's wrist at the root, which had grown out of a crevice in the rock, but had fallen down, yet hung by a single root, not larger than a pipe stem; this tree, as it lay, reached almost to the lower edge of the rock. When I had got to the top end of it, and was in full motion directly for the edge of the rock, I instinctively caught hold of the tree, which immediately stopped my way; but when I looked up and saw by what a slender hold I depended, I own that I felt affrighted; however, by using great caution and bearing with as little weight on the tree as possible, I got up to the upper part of the rock, where it was more level. When I had got upon my feet again, I made off, thankful for whole bones, though not with an entire whole skin. I cannot think of the risk I then ran for my hide, without my feet involuntarily moving, even at this late hour of my life. In the first part of the month of November I was sent down the river, about five miles, with fifteen men to cut wood for our winter's use; our duty was, to cut the wood of proper lengths for the fire and then carry it on our backs to the shore, from whence it was carried to the garrison in batteaux by those who had remained at home. We continued at this business till christmas, when we were ordered to the garrison. I sent off our tents, &c. by the boats, and, on christmas-day, we set off ourselves by land. It was a violently cold, windy, snow-stormy day, and we had to travel eight or ten miles, roundabout, to get home, with the wind directly in our faces. It began to snow before daylight and we started about eight o'clock in the morning; before we reached home the snow had fallen eighteen inches deep, and not a single track but those we made ourselves. I froze my right ear considerably; but otherwise, we all arrived safely at camp, although I was very unwell for several days after. Afflictions always attended the poor soldiers. As soon as the storm had ceased, we removed into our new barracks; one half of a regiment of Artillerists and a regiment of Invalids, having removed into them before us. And now, having provided our wood for the winter, built our barracks, stowed ourselves away snugly in them, and winter having handsomely set in, it will, of course, bring my seventh campaign to a close.
