date: 1779-01-01
author: Joseph Plumb Martin
title: A Narrative of Some of the Adventures, Dangers and Sufferings of a Revolutionary Soldier
role: enlisted
service: Continental Army
source_type: memoir
chunk_id: dcffb3f293f203d03151fee5016b070a5e736c82
chunk_index: 74/115
campaign_year: 1779

---

to one for relief; he gave me a large dose of tartar-emetic, the usual remedy in the army for all disorders, even sore eyes, though he could not have given me a better one for my then present malady. He gave me ample directions how to proceed, a part of which was, to take one half or two thirds of the potion, and wait a given time, and if it did not operate, then to swallow the remainder; it did not work till I had the whole in my crop, nor then neither. I waited sometime for it, but growing impatient, I wandered off into the fields and bushes to see what effect exercise would have; I had not strolled a half or three fourths of a mile from camp, when it took full hold of my gizzard; I then sat down upon a log, or stone, or something else, and discharged the hard junks of liver like grapeshot from a fieldpiece. I had no water or any other thing to ease my retchings. O, I thought I must die in good earnest. The liver still kept coming, and I looked at every heave for my own liver to come next, but that happened to be too well fastened to part from its moorings. Perhaps the reader will think this a trifling matter, happening in the ordinary course of things, but I think it a "suffering," and not a small one neither, "of a revolutionary soldier." After the British had retreated to New-York, our army marched for West point. We passed through the Highlands, by the Clove, a remarkable chasm in the mountains, and came out on the bank of the Hudson river, at a place called Buttermilk-falls, where a small stream falls into the river over a high craggy bank, forming a pretty cascade. We halted here, it was in the morning, and I well remember our Colonel's orders on the occasion, "men," said he, "you have one hour allowed you to refresh yourselves!" Had we been herbaceous animals, we might have refreshed ourselves on browse, for there was no deficiency of that, but as to victuals fit for human beings, I question if there was five pounds weight in the whole regiment; I had none, nor had I had any for twenty-four hours; we were, at this time, ruminating animals, but our ruminating was mentally, not by the teeth. Had the falls been real buttermilk, the Colonel's order might have been given with some propriety, but as it was not so, we were forced to be patient, for we did not expect to be fed by a miracle. We passed on to West point; the Connecticut forces crossed the river to the eastern side, and encamped opposite to West point, upon what was called Nelson's point. It was now very hot weather, being the latter part of June; here, for a considerable length of time, our rations, when we got any, consisted of bread and salt shad; this fish, as salt as fire, and dry bread, without any kind of vegetables, was hard fare in such extreme hot weather as it was then. We were compelled to eat it as it was; if we attempted to soak it in a brook that ran close by the camp, we were quite sure to lose it; there being a great abundance of Otters and Minks in and about the water, four legged and two legged, (but much the largest number of the latter,) so that they would be quite sure to carry off the fish, let us do what we would to prevent it. Soon after we were encamped here I was sent off with a working party to work upon some fortifications on Constitution Island, a mile or two higher up the river. We had our allowance of salt shad and bread, and were to remain there a week; our duty was, chiefly, wheeling dirt upon a stone building intended for a magazine. We had to wheel to the top of the wall, which was about twenty feet high, upon a way two planks wide, and in the passage we had to cross a chasm in the rocks thirty or forty feet wide and perhaps as many deep. None of us happened to take a dive into it, but it often made my head swim when crossing it at such a rate, and I thought it would not be strange if some of us should feel the bottom before we left there. From the planks, which we wheeled upon, to the bottom of the hole, could not be less than sixty feet; if any one had fallen into it he would have received his discharge from the army without further trouble. We continued at this business two or three days, when the weather became so hot that it was difficult to breathe; the rays of the sun reflected from the bare rocks (all that part of the island where we were, being mostly so) was stifling in the extreme, and to complete a bad business, there was not a drop of water on the island, except the brackish water of the river, and that was as warm as milk and almost as nauseous as the waters of the Nile after it had
