date: 1779-01-01
author: Joseph Plumb Martin
title: A Narrative of Some of the Adventures, Dangers and Sufferings of a Revolutionary Soldier
role: enlisted
service: Continental Army
source_type: memoir
chunk_id: e19c10d3ba60471118ca656c7916e3adb436d0c9
chunk_index: 77/115
campaign_year: 1779

---

and so far from the main army, this resource was not soon or easily exhausted; but there were musquetoes enough to take a pound of blood from us, while we could make an ounce. We had some plague or other always to torment us;—says the reader, "who is without?" Soon after our arrival here, a British brig passed up the river; the same that conveyed the unfortunate Major Andre to his bane. Poor man! he had better have staid where he was better acquainted. I was about this time ordered to return up the river, in company with one of our Lieutenants, after some clothing for our men. The Lieutenant rode in company with an officer of the Artillery, who was going that way upon business of his own, and I went on foot, and started early in the morning with only my blanket and provisions, (that is, if I had any;) it was very hot weather; and when I had travelled about ten miles on my way, being on a good road, in the heat of the day, and passing through a considerable wood, a young lady made her appearance at a turn of the road about forty rods ahead of me. The heat had induced her to divest herself of some of her outside garments. But upon discovering me in her immediate neighbourhood, she slipped on her clothes and came on towards me seemingly quite unconcerned; but, on thinking better of the matter, (as I supposed,) she concluded that it would not be quite safe to encounter a soldier in such a place; she accordingly turned about and made her escape as fast as possible through the bushes. When she first started from the road I saw her drop something and she partly turned about to take it up, but thinking that it would not do to stop for trifles when the enemy was so near, she resumed her race. I then hallooed to her which caused her to hasten her departure in double quick time. Upon coming to the place where she turned off from the road, I had the curiosity to see what she had dropped, it proved to be a knot of black ribbon, of about a yard and a half. Not knowing but the poor thing might take another fright if she came back after it, I concluded to save her the trouble, and accordingly took it with me. She seemed to be in a violent panic. But every Miss that I saw while in the army was not so easily frightened. I crossed King's ferry and went on to the foot of the Highlands, where there was a commissary, and wagoners, boatmen, &c. Here I again joined my Lieutenant, and obtained a ration or two of provisions, consisting of corned beef and hard bread, borrowed a pot, cooked my meat, ate my supper, turned in under an old wagon and slept soundly till about an hour before day, when the Lieutenant called me up to go on to Newburgh, about twenty miles further up the river. He had procured a batteau and five or six men to convey us up and bring down the clothing which we were after. We had a mile or two to go to reach the boat, over ledges, through brush, and as dark as Egypt. We then proceeded to Newburgh, where we got our clothing. While I was packing it away in empty hogsheads the Lieutenant gave me a hint to take care of my own interest, I accordingly picked from the best of each article what was allowed to each man and bundled them up by themselves; afterwards, when a distribution was made, some of the sergeants were a little inclined to cavil with me for my partiality to myself, but the Lieutenant interfered in my favour, telling them that I deserved the preference, as I had been at so much pains and trouble while they had remained at home at their ease. We returned down the river on our way to camp until we came to where we took the boat, when I was set on shore to take the Lieutenant's and the other officer's horses to King's ferry, while the Lieutenant went down in the boat. I took the horses and went on alone to the ferry; on the way, being hungry, my provisions, if I had any, being in the boat, I saw some fine looking apples in a field and dismounted and filled my pockets with them and ate a considerable quantity; they were sweet and of rather a tough texture, and caused me considerable trouble, as I shall relate by and by. I crossed the ferry in a large scow; there were ten or twelve head of cattle, besides my horses, in the boat. About midway of the river a cow jumped out and took her departure directly down the river, it being ebb tide and the water rapid, she was soon out of sight. There was not the least exertion
