date: 1782-01-01
author: Joseph Plumb Martin
title: A Narrative of Some of the Adventures, Dangers and Sufferings of a Revolutionary Soldier
role: enlisted
service: Continental Army
source_type: memoir
chunk_id: f758d528d9dd4bb1d2f6d872df7bfae5bf0db06a
chunk_index: 101/115
campaign_year: 1782

---

Eight men died at this time, the rest recovered, though the most of them very slowly; some were as crazy as coots for weeks after they had gained strength to walk about. My hair came off my head, and I was as bald as an eagle; but after I began to gain strength I soon got about. But it was a grievous sickness to me, the sorest I had ever undergone. Although death is much nearer to me now than it was then, yet I never had thought myself so near death as I did then. The spring had now began to open and warm weather soon came on. We remained here till the month of May, when one of our sergeants and myself obtained permission to go down to Philadelphia for a couple of days, to visit some of our acquaintance in that city, but particularly to carry some little clothing to one of our men in the hospital there, who was wounded at the siege of Yorktown, and had had his leg amputated above the knee. I carried him, among other things, a pair of stockings and shoes; his nurse told him, that he was more lucky than most other people, for when they got one pair of shoes and stockings, he got two. Poor fellow! I never saw nor heard of him afterwards. Thus poor soldiers pass out of notice. My comrade and I staid over two days at Philadelphia, intending to return the next day in the packet. That evening, one of our non-commissioned officers came down, who informed us that our corps had marched for Hudson's river, and that our arms and clothing were gone on in the baggage wagons, and that we must immediately follow. We all, however, staid there that night, and early next morning, we sat off by land. We had nothing to burden us, not even provisions or money; consequently, had nothing to hinder us from proving our adroitness at travelling. We walked that day about forty miles, and stopped at night at a small snug house in the State of New-Jersey. We were obliged to take the soft side of the floor for our lodging, having no blankets or any other kind of bedding. I was tired and could have slept almost any where, had I been undisturbed; but there was, belonging to the house, a likely young huzzy; she, with her parents, composed the whole family; at least, they were all I saw. They all went to rest in a back room, and we were left to sleep in the outer room. I had hardly fallen asleep, when some one came bawling at the door; the girl, I suppose, knowing who it was, got up and came blundering over the chairs, through the room where I was lying, making as much noise as a thunder storm, she at length got to the door and talked some time with the man; when she came rattling back and went muttering to her bed. I had but just dropped asleep again, when the same jockey, I supposed, as it appeared to be the same voice, came back and began his yelping again; the poor girl had to scratch open her eyes once more, and come through our territories, making as much confusion as at the first time; they talked pretty loud for nearly an hour, which kept us awake all the time they were there. I wished he had taken an opportunity to visit his Miss when I was farther off. She came in again and went to her room, growling like an old bear. "What did he want?" said the mother to her; "He wanted me to go with him to ——," she mentioned some place. "Why did you not go?" said the good woman; "I should look well going with him at this time of night,—I should—so I should," said she. Before I could get to sleep again it was daybreak;—I wished the girl had been asleep and her wooer gagged, before I had seen or heard either of them. As soon as the day dawned, the man of the house came into the room where we were, and took a large jug, that had stood all night just at my head, and poured out a morning stimulater for himself and then put the jug into a closet; I was sorry I did not know it was so near me, that I might have taken a comforter for the trouble they had caused me. We started before sunrise this morning, and walked forty-nine miles, when, just before sunset, we overtook our corps. I had eaten nothing all day, but drank several draughts of buttermilk which I begged of the farmer's ladies on the road. The next day we arrived at a large house near King's ferry, usually denominated by the army "The white house," belonging to —— Smith, the man who conducted Major Andre on his way towards NewYork, when he was taken. Our troops staid here that night, and the next day and night,
