date: 1779-01-01
author: Joseph Plumb Martin
title: A Narrative of Some of the Adventures, Dangers and Sufferings of a Revolutionary Soldier
role: enlisted
service: Continental Army
source_type: memoir
chunk_id: c3de5b2c575e59ef10b3133bad1288419e15bfef
chunk_index: 60/115
campaign_year: 1779

---

We fared a little better for a few days after this memento to the officers; but it soon became an old story, and the old system commenced again as regular as fair weather to foul. We endeavoured to bear it with our usual fortitude, until it again became intolerable, and the soldiers determined to try once more to raise some provisions, if not, at least to raise another dust. Accordingly, one evening, after dark, we all turned out again with our arms, appointed a commander and were determined that time, if we could not be better accommodated, to march into the centre of the State and disperse to our homes, in presence of as many of our fellow-citizens as chose to be spectators. After we had organized ourselves and regulated the plan for our future operations, it was the design of our regiment to have marched to our field-officers' quarters, and through them to demand of our country better usage; but before we had got all our little matters of etiquette settled, our Adjutant came up, (he having been over at the village, on some errand best known to himself,) and seeing us in arms upon the parade at that time of night, mistrusted something was in the wind; he passed us without saying a word and went directly and informed the other officers, all of whom were soon upon the parade. Our Major was the first that arrived, he was a fine bold looking man, and made a fine appearance. He came on to the right of the regiment, and soon after the Colonel and other officers came in front; the commanding seargeant ordered the men to shoulder arms, and then to present, (which is a token of respect,) and then to order them again. The Major then addressed the sergeant thus: "Well, sergeant —— you have got a larger regiment than we had this evening at roll-call, but I should think it would be more agreeable for the men to be asleep in their huts this cold night, than to be standing here on the parade, for I remember that they were very impatient at roll-call on account of the cold." "Yes, sir," said the sergeant, "Solomon says that 'the abundance of the rich will not suffer him to sleep;' and we find that the abundance of poverty will not suffer us to sleep." By this time the Colonel had come to where the Major and serjeant were arguing the case, and the old mode of flattery and promising was resorted to and produced the usual effect; we all once more returned to our huts and fires, and there spent the remainder of the night, muttering over our forlorn condition. It was now the beginning of February; many of the men had obtained furloughs to go home and visit their friends, before I had left the Light Infantry, and many since; I now made application and obtained one for fifteen days' absence. I prepared for the journey (which was about thirty miles) and started from the camp about nine o'clock in the morning, intending to go the whole distance that day. I had not a mouthful of any thing to eat or to carry with me. I had, it is true, two or three shillings of old continental money, worth about as much as its weight in rags. I, however, sat off for home; the hopes of soon seeing my friends and the expectation of there filling my belly once more, buoyed up my spirits until I had got within about five miles of home;—when coming to a tavern about sunset, I consulted with myself whether I had not better call and get me a glass of spirits, as I did not possess wherewith to procure me a meal of victuals, concluding that I should soon be where I could get that gratis; I accordingly did call and drank a glass of spirits and water, and immediately pursued my journey. I soon came to where I was obliged to leave the high road and take to one that struck across the country and a ferry. By the time I had got to this road I had become so faint that I thought I could not reach the nearest house, which was more than a mile distant. I was acquainted with this road, but the main road which led to a large village, I was unacquainted with any further than where I then was. I sat down and rested myself a few minutes, and I had need of it. I concluded to keep on the main road, being confident that I should find a house in a less distance than on the other. I went on, often having to rest myself from mere faintness; I travelled, however, nearly a mile and a half without seeing the least sign of a house. At length, after much fatigue, I came to an old house, standing, as the Irishman said, out of doors. I made up to it and knocked at the door,—"Who's there?" cried an old woman from within. "A friend," I replied. "What do you want?" said she,—"I want to rest here to-night." "I cannot entertain you," said she, "I am alone and cannot let a stranger in." I told her I could not, and would not go any further. After some inquiring on her part and answering on mine, she condescended to admit me. She needed not to have feared me, for had she been a virgin, and as beautiful as Hellen, I should have had no inclination to have soiled her chastity that night, I had something else to employ my thoughts upon; however loath the old lady was to admit me, she used me extremely well, for she provided me with a good supper and a field bed before the fire, where I slept soundly till the morning, nor would she let me depart in the morning till I had breakfasted. While she was preparing my breakfast, I chopped off a backlog and put it on the fire, which was all the compensation she required, nor even that, it was my own will; we then parted with mutual thanks, and I proceeded on my journey. On the evening before, the ground was quite clear of snow, but during the night, there fell nearly a foot in depth of light snow and I had to return to the road I had left the preceding evening. There was no track in the new fallen snow until I came to the cross road, when I found a footman had passed before me. He appeared, by his track and the mark of a cane he used, to be an old man. I could not help being
