date: 1779-01-01
author: Joseph Plumb Martin
title: A Narrative of Some of the Adventures, Dangers and Sufferings of a Revolutionary Soldier
role: enlisted
service: Continental Army
source_type: memoir
chunk_id: 180d59919ce0cc1856b45f6aee4d51db0c6b0d40
chunk_index: 61/115
campaign_year: 1779

---

diverted by observing at every few rods distance, that the poor fellow had slipped down on the ice, which was covered by the snow, when he would spatter the snow about like a horse. I soon overtook him, he was an old black man. When I came to the ferry it was frozen over, and covered with snow a foot deep; I went into the ferryman's house, one of who's daughters was wife to the drummajor of our regiment; she made a bitter complaint to me against her husband, said he came home from the army and spent all her earnings, gave the whole family the itch, and then went off to camp, leaving her and her children to shift for themselves as well as they could. I could have told her a little more of his amiable conduct than she knew, but I thought she might as well get her information from some other quarter. The people here told me that it was dangerous crossing the river, as the ice was full of holes which were mostly covered by the snow. There was no way for me but to venture on the ice, or go five or six miles lower down the river to another ferry. I did not like the first and the second I could not agree to at all. I therefore ventured upon the ice and passed over to the opposite shore in safety, with some danger and trouble; when I arrived at the other side I found the tide up and the edge of the ice a rod or two from the shore; I then had to travel up the river on the ice, three times the distance that it was to cross the river, and with more danger, before I could get off; I got off however without drowning. I then had two miles to go, and frequently met people belonging to the town, but very few recollected me; I arrived at my good old grandsire's about eight or nine o'clock in the morning, with a keen appetite for my breakfast, although I had ate one that day. I believe the old people were glad to see me, they appeared to be much so, and I am quite sure I was glad to see them and all my other friends, if I had any. I had now an opportunity of seeing the place of my boyhood, visit old acquaintance, and ramble over my old haunts; but my time was short, and I had of course, to employ every minute to the best advantage. I remained at home till my furlough had fully expired; I intended my country should give me a day to return to camp. The day before I intended to set off for the army, my Lieutenant arrived at home to spend a week with his family. He called upon me and told me that if I chose I might stay and accompany him to camp, and he would be responsible for me. I did not want much persuasion to comply with his desire, and accordingly remained another week, and then went with the Lieutenant to camp, and had no fault found. I had not been at camp more than a week, before I was sent off with a large detachment to NewLondon, to guard the fortifications in and about that town. On our march we passed through the place of my residence when at home; the detachment tarried a night there, so I had an opportunity of being at home another night. We marched in the morning and remained the following night at New-Haven. I was quartered for the night in a house in the skirts of the town; there was a young lady belonging to the house, who, as it was Sabbath eve, had gone out to see the "daughters of the land," like Dinah of old. Just as we were about to lie down, I went to the back door of the house, where was a small field of dry cornstalks, I met the young lady with a gallant, just at the door; the moment he saw me he left his sweetheart and went off through the cornstalks, making as much noise as if a whirlwind had passed through them. I thought he was a brave fellow, thus to leave his mistress in the power of those he was afraid of himself, and not stop so long as to ask quarters for her, but, upon the first alarm, to desert her to save his own four quarters from receiving damage. Many pretended heroes have done the same, perhaps worse. We went by easy marches and nothing of consequence occurred until we arrived at New-London; here we were put into houses, and here too we almost starved to death, and I believe should have quite starved, had we not found some clams which kept us from absolutely dying. We had nothing to eat except now and then a little miserable beef or a little fresh fish, and a very little bread, baked by a baker belonging to the town, which had some villainous drug incorporated with it that took all the skin off our mouths. I sincerely believe it was done on purpose to prevent our eating. I was not free from a sore mouth the whole time I staid there. Just before we left this place a privateer brig arrived from a cruise; she was hauled up and dismantled. One day I went on board her, and in the bread room I found one or two bushels of sea-biscuit; at night I again went on board and filled my knapsack, which was a relief to my hungry stomach. But this bread had nearly as much flesh as bread, beingas full of worms as ever the dry sap-wood of a white ash pole was; consequently, it required a deal of circumspection in eating it;—however, it was better than snow balls. The other men in my room, likewise, used to avail themselves of the opportunity to procure some, after I had told them where it might be obtained. Several funny, and some serious accidents occurred while I remained here, but as they would be tedious to narrate, and, perhaps, uninteresting to the reader, I shall pass them by unnoticed. We staid here, starving, until the first of May, when we received orders to march to camp and join our regiments. The troops belonging to New-Hampshire marched sometime before we did. While on our
