date: 1782-01-01
author: Joseph Plumb Martin
title: A Narrative of Some of the Adventures, Dangers and Sufferings of a Revolutionary Soldier
role: enlisted
service: Continental Army
source_type: memoir
chunk_id: 99a414f024b4ce286723b7fb5170b0631332433b
chunk_index: 104/115
campaign_year: 1782

---

upon the poor culprit for playing the truant, he told him that the flour barrel was still to settle for, and then paid him for that, principal and interest. Another affair, in which the Captain and he differed in opinion, happened while we were lying at West point: it was as follows: This man used sometimes to attend on the sergeants' mess, as they were allowed a waiter or cook, he acted as such at the time I mention. One morning after roll-call, we (the sergeants) allowed him, at his own request, to go and work for a farmer in the neighbourhood of the camp; he had done so before, and it was quite agreeable to us all, for he received his wages for his work in milk, butter, &c. which he always brought into the mess. On the day mentioned, he was at work at the farmer's pulling flax; the farmer had an orchard close by where our man was at work; the soldiers, as they passed, used often to pillage some of the good man's apples. To prevent these depredations upon his property, in some measure, he requested our soldier to take an old musket belonging to the house, loaded with powder only, and when any of the plunderers passed by, to pretend that he was a sentinel, and drive them off; not content with going thus far, he must put a small blighted apple into his musket for a ball. It was not long before he had an opportunity to exercise his sentryship, for several soldiers coming by and taking the liberty, as usual, to take some fruit, they were ordered off by our hero,and not obeying so soon as he desired, or expected, he fired his apple amongst them, which did not seem to be very agreeable to their feelings. They knew to what corps he belonged by his uniform; and ours was the first they came to on entering the garrison. As the poor fellow's ill luck would have it, the Sergeant-Major was the first they encountered upon entering. They made bitter complaint against the pretended sentry, and he carried it directly to the Captain, without losing a morsel by the way. The Captain ordered him to send the man to him as soon as he came home. The Captain's marquee had a shade over and round the entrance. I was upon quarters guard at a tent in the rear of the Captain's, when, just after roll-call, I saw poor Pilgarlick repairing to the Captain's tent; I pretty well knew what would be the consequence of his visit; I listened, heard some discourse between them, but the distance was so great that I could hear but little distinctly, but I soon heard the ratan in motion again, very plainly. As soon as the action was over, the man came to me at the guard; I asked him what the Captain and he had been at, as they had, to appearance, been very lively. "I will tell you," said he, "the Sergeant-Major had told the Captain that I had deserted, but when he found I had not, he sent for me to come and see him, and you cannot conceive how glad he was to see me, and nothing would do, but I must dance a jig with him; I told him I had much rather not, as, possibly, it might injure his character to be seen dancing with a private soldier; but it would not signify, a jig we must have at all events, and he got hold of my hand and began to whistle, and I began to dance, and a fine jig I suppose he thought we had.— The plague seize his old carcass, I wish he was twisted up fifteen miles above the seven stars, there to remain till every hair of his head was a meteor, and every limb a comet." I could not help laughing at his buffoonery, though I thought if I had been in his place I should not have turned it off so lightly. After we had ended our stone blasting, we went to building a new range of barracks, and elegant ones too; they were two stories high with wings at each end, brick chimnies, and a gallery in front the whole length of the building, with large flights of steps to ascend to the gallery and the upper room—large enough to accommodate two or three regiments. Levity and Folly are twin sisters, and are restive jades; when they are yoked together in the same vehicle and have Indiscretion for a driver, they will very often draw a man into wild and ridiculous scrapes, as I know by experience. They run me into one about this time, which I will relate, as I think it an "adventure," and a "suffering," though a foolish one, such an one as I shall not easily forget, if it should not seem of much consequence to any one but myself. Several of our men, and myself among the rest, by permission of our officers, took a boat one day and went to the western side of the river for the purpose of gathering chessnuts.
